THE BOOKS OF SAMUEL ROGERS 145

it cannot be pretended that, either in age or youth,
he was an attractive-looking man. In these cases,
as in that of Goldsmith, a measure of burlesque
sometimes provides a surer criterion than academie
portraiture. The bust of the sculptor-caricaturist,
Danton, is of course what even Hogarth would have
classed as outre'¹; but there is reason for believing
that Maclise’s sketch in Fraser of the obtrusively
bald, cadaverous and wizened figure in its arm-chair,
Which gave such a shudder of premonition to Goethe,
and which Maginn, reflecting the popular voice, de-
clared to be a mortal likeness—“ painted to the very
death ’'—was more like the original than his pictures
by Lawrence and Hoppner. One can comprehend,
too, that the person whom nature bad so ungenerously
endowed, might be perfectly capable of retorting to
rudeness, or the still-smarting recollection of rude-
ness, with those weapons of mordant wit and acrid
epigram which are not unfrequently the protective
compensation of physical shortcomings. But this
conceded, there are numberless anecdotes which
testify to Rogers's cultivated taste and real good
breeding, to his genuine benevolence, to his almost
sentimental craving for appreciation and affection.
In a paper on his books, it is permissible to end with

¹ Rogers's own copy of this, which (it may be added), he held in horror, now
belongs to Mr. Edrnund Gosse. Lord Londonderry has a number of Danton's

busts.
L

