THACKERAY'S α ESMoND “ 173

powers, that this attempt to revive the language
and atmosphere of a vanished era was in great
part dictated. It has even been said that, like
Pendennis‚ it was all dictated3 but this it seems
is a mistake, for, as we shall see presently, part of
the manuscript was prepared by the author himself.
As he warmed to his work, however, he often
reverted to the method of oral composition which
had always been most congenial to him, and which
explains the easy colloquialism of his style. Much
of the “copy'’ was taken down by Mr. Crowe in
a first-floor bedroom of No. 16 Young Street,
Kensington, the still-existent house where Vanity
Fair had been written; at the Bedford Hotel in
Covent Garden 3 at the round table in the Athenaeum
library, and elsewhere. “I write better anywhere
than at home‚''——Thackeray told Elwin,—“ and I
write less at home than anywhere.'‘ Sometimes
author and scribe would betake themselves to the
British Museum‚ to look up points in connection
with Marlborough's battles, or to rummage Jacob
Tonson's Gazettes for the official accounts of
Wynendael and Oudenarde. The British Museum‚
indeed, was another of Esmond's birthplaces. By
favour of Sir Antonio Panizzi‚ Thackeray and his
assistant, surrounded by their authorities, were
accommodated in one of the secluded galleries. “l
sat down,'’—says Mr. Crowe—-“ and wrote to

